Support kerberos and delegation-token (#266)
ExpediaGroup/waggle-dance: HowToKerberize.md

![Bee waggle-dancing on a hive.](logo.png "Federating Hive Meta Stores.")

> # Additional instruction to use Waggle Dance in kerberized environment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Additional instructions to use Waggle Dance in a Kerberized environment
```

### Process

> In a kerberos environment, after a client requests waggle-dance, waggle-dance requests the proxy user's token from the metastore and then uses that token to communicate with the metastore.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a Kerberos environment a client make a request to Waggle Dance which in turn requests the proxy user's token from the metastore and then uses this token to communicate with the metastore.
```

> This is necessary in some scenarios that require permission authentication. Such as the `create_table` API that requires the proxy user to create hdfs directories.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is necessary in certain scenarios that need authentication - for example the `create_table` API that requires the proxy user to create HDFS directories.
```

> ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/13965087/229339323-260f3c17-46c0-4471-81d2-cdbcfa0fe3ce.png)

Reviewer: We should move a cleaned up version of this diagram to this repository instead of an external link.

Reviewer 2: I think what @massdosage means is to upload the image as part of the PR and reference it just like we do with: https://github.com/ExpediaGroup/waggle-dance/blob/main/system-diagram.png

> In addition, because kerberos authentication requires a delegation-token to proxy as other users. The proxy user of the session is shared globally, which means we need to make all Hive Metastores share a set of delegation-token storage so that a single delegation-token can be authenticated by multiple Metastores.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition, because Kerberos authentication requires a delegation-token to proxy as other users, the proxy user of the session is shared globally. This means we need to make all Hive Metastores share a set of delegation-token storage so that a single delegation-token can be authenticated by multiple Metastores.
```

> **One solution is to use zookeeper to store tokens for all Hive Metastores, which is essential.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**One solution is to use Zookeeper to store tokens for all Hive Metastores**
```

### Prerequisites

> * Kerberized claster:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Kerberized cluster:
```

  active KDC,

>   some required properties in configuration files of hadoop services

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  some required properties in configuration files of Hadoop services
```

> * User account with privileges in ipa

Reviewer: What is `ipa`?

> * Zookeeper to store delegation-token (Recommend)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Zookeeper to store delegation-token (Recommended)
```

### Configuration

> Waggle Dance does not read hadoop's *core-site.xml* so a general property providing kerberos auth should be added to
> the Hive configuration file *hive-site.xml*:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Waggle Dance does not read Hadoop's `core-site.xml` so a general property providing Kerberos auth should be added to
the Hive configuration file `hive-site.xml`:
```

```
<property>
  <name>hadoop.security.authentication</name>
  <value>KERBEROS</value>
</property>
```

> Besides Waggle Dance needs a keytab file to communicate with the Metastore so following properties should be present:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Waggle Dance also needs a keytab file to communicate with the Metastore so the following properties should be present:
```

```
<property>
  <name>hive.metastore.sasl.enabled</name>
  <value>true</value>
</property>
<property>
  <name>hive.metastore.kerberos.principal</name>

>   <value>hive/_HOST@DEV.DF.SBRF.RU</value>

Reviewer: Can we make this more generic?

</property>
<property>
  <name>hive.metastore.kerberos.keytab.file</name>
  <value>/etc/hive.keytab</value>
</property>
```

> In addition, all metastores need to use the zk shared token:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition, all metastores need to use the Zookeeper shared token:
```

```
  <property>
    <name>hive.cluster.delegation.token.store.class</name>
    <value>org.apache.hadoop.hive.thrift.ZooKeeperTokenStore</value>
  </property>
  <property>
    <name>hive.cluster.delegation.token.store.zookeeper.connectString</name>
    <value>zk1:2181,zk2:2181,zk3:2181</value>
  </property>
  <property>
    <name>hive.cluster.delegation.token.store.zookeeper.znode</name>
    <value>/hive/token</value>
  </property>
```

> If you are intending to use a beeline client, following properties may be valuable:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are intending to use a Beeline client, the following properties may be valuable:
```

```
<property>
  <name>hive.server2.transport.mode</name>
  <value>http</value>
</property>
<property>
  <name>hive.server2.authentication</name>
  <value>KERBEROS</value>
</property>
<property>
  <name>hive.server2.authentication.kerberos.principal</name>

>   <value>hive/_HOST@DEV.DF.SBRF.RU</value>

Reviewer: Same as above

</property>
<property>
  <name>hive.server2.authentication.kerberos.keytab</name>
  <value>/etc/hive.keytab</value>
</property>
<property>
  <name>hive.server2.enable.doAs</name>
  <value>false</value>
</property>
```

### Running

> The Waggle Dance should be starting as privileged user with a fresh keytab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Waggle Dance should be started by a privileged user with a fresh keytab.
```

If Waggle Dance throws a GSS exception, you have problem with the keytab file.

> Try to perform `kdestroy` and `kinit` operations and check for a keytab file ownership.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Try to perform `kdestroy` and `kinit` operations and check the keytab file ownership flags.
```

> If the Metastore throws an exception with code -127, Waggle Dance uses wrong authentication policy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the Metastore throws an exception with code -127, Waggle Dance is probably using the wrong authentication policy.
```

> Check hive-conf.xml for a correct configuration and make sure that HIVE_HOME and HIVE_CONF_DIR are defined.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check the values in `hive-conf.xml` and make sure that HIVE_HOME and HIVE_CONF_DIR are defined.
```
